This of what we're going to talk about
the truth is that I love it because it's
a reality that a lot of people
when making estimates of the
size of the market come to
conclusions that is that they're stupid.
It makes a little the story of
the milkhouse, because you start from
above, you start to make estimates.
I'll explain it to you with what's
called the 1% falsehood.
You think you're going to enter
the Chinese market, but it doesn't
matter, but the Chinese
market is very big, billions.
You say, well, I'm going to enter
the Chinese market, billions.
What amount am I going to?
You start making estimates
downwards.
How much will I stay?
At least 1 percent, right?
It has to be very bad to
not get the 1%.
You say, the 1% I will charge
a lot of pasta.
It seems to you a lot.
You say, well, I will be careful.
Instead of 1% we are
still at 0.1.
We should not be able
to get the 0.1.
You're going to get it in Excel,
right?
And you also get a lot of
millions.
And then it turns out that you
get to the Chinese market and
it is not that you don't buy the
0.1, it is that you buy 0 Chinese,
because you don't have a proposal
to get there, etc., etc.
And all you had done was the tale
of the milk-tree.
And that happens a lot of times.
Especially when you have proposals
that are innovative, you
don't know what's going to
happen.
Because if you enter the Chinese market,
in a mature market and you are already
selling something, etc., then there
is less risk, right?
But when it's innovative, you
don't buy one, right?
Buying 0
So, it's okay to understand how
you can make the estimate from
top to bottom, which is the Samsung
Thumb, which is top parts and
you say, well, I can get to
this market, I'm going to stay
with so much, etc.
But we always recommend using a
different analysis that is less
orthodox,, that is downward-upward,
that is starting from what is
happening from the observation,
even if it is less scientific,
well, and upward.
And look, I will explain it with
an example.
We think you have a tax
advice and you create
a start-up advice service.
How would it be from above to below?
You use Samsung thumb and you say,
because the thumb is all companies
in Spain.
The thumb, as what we do is, let's
see what the startups are
and let's think what they are
that we could get to, right?
Then, from here, you do what you
do is apply a hypothesis of what
share you will reach within that
market, which would be your SOM.
We will capture 10% of the market every
year.
So you say, well, my SOM, the Obtainable,
what I'm going to get
are 100 customers a year.
I don't want you to stay so much
with the concrete numbers, but
how did we do it?
100 customers per year.
That's what you put in the business
plan, that's what you expect and that's what
makes it different.
Instead of starting from market
studies, the number there
is, etc., etc., we forget all
that and what we're going to
do is, let's look at what's
happening.
Let us see what the reality
of life is every day.
And I pay you an example, because you take
it and offer it, you when you launch
that advice, you take it and offer
it to 10 startups.
You give it to 10, you sit with
10 and from 10 you buy one.
So, you already know you have
a quick out of every potential
customer of 10%.
This is not market studies or
mental downs, this is what
is happening.
You sit with 10 and catch one.
Well, then you say, look, but
how much can I grow?
Another variable we have to
consider is, how many people,
with how many people can
we meet each month?
Because that is a limitation.
Well, it turns out that you
eventually doing some campaign,
etc., etc., you can meet
with 20 per month.
If you meet with 20 companies a month
and have a conversion rate of 10%,
how many customers will you capture
a month?
by 2.
This is the reality.
How many customers are you going to capture per year?
12 months for two, 24 customers.
We have come, as you
see, by doing it from below
to above, to a different
conclusion.
We were talking before when we applied
the Samsung Time, etc., that
we were going to capture 100 customers,
that was the 10% of the share
of we are seeing what is happening
and we do it downward,
because it turns out that
we get 24.
And they can be 20 or 30, but they
won't be 100, unless you change your
structure, do things differently
and more.
So, the Samsung Time, from those
market shares you were thinking
you could capture, etc.,
because they were not correct.
So as a recommendation, always
what we recommend is that, in addition
to doing the Samsung Time,
etc., you use a different criterion
that is the bottom-up, that
you look around what is what
is happening, that you start
selling, etc., and then from
there extrapolate, because
in many cases what will happen
is that you will come to
different conclusions.
And if I had to choose, I would
get with the bottom-up approach,
because it's much more tied to
real life and there's not so much
market study, statistics
and so on.
No, no, that is what we are seeing.
This we talk about from top to bottom
and from bottom to top, etc., is especially
important when for entrepreneurs
or for large or small companies,
it doesn't matter, they are launching
something that has uncertainty
or innovative risk, that
we don't know how to fit
in the market, right?
When that is the case, you don't
have to do any market studies,
statistics, or get excel, or anything
of that.
What is worth it is observation.
Then I here, anecdotally,
tell you that when entrepreneurs
come and they start to talk about
the market and so on, I say, look,
uncle, do something, because
so you will come out of doubt.
Offer it to 10, 20, 30, 40, I don't
know, depending on a little, common
sense, people without much effort that
are people of your target audience
and make sure or find out how
many of them want to buy you.
I tell you that if you are able,
with little effort, to tell people
around you and there are people
who are willing to pay for it,
people, of course, don't be a rarity
in the world.
Usually you find people you can extrapolate,
because there are probably
thousands or millions of
people like them.
Then I would be willing to
invest in it, I'm sure you'll go
phenomenal and I don't need any
kind of market research or
anything like that.
Because you are demonstrating that
with little effort you are able to
sell a lot of people.
You find people and this you can extrapolate,
because like them there are millions
and you have cost little effort
to find them, do you understand?
So different approach.
Stop thinking, market research,
and talk about it.
Look at how this works.
Sometimes no one wants to buy you.
So it doesn't matter that the market
is huge, because they don't
want to buy you.
It costs you a lot to sell.
You will be going to go on a
shit because it costs you a lot
to sell.
You will escalate that.
It is multiplying zero by one million, because
it is still coming out zero.
Instead, if instead of multiplying
zero, what you are multiplying
is that with little effort
you are selling people.
There are many such people, because
they have a huge market.